---
title: "Introduction to Nothing"
layout: "single"  
---

I have been wanting to do a bloggish kinda site for a long time. Actually, a really long time. Years.  

I have had a couple of sites in the past, but none that I have ever put much effort into.  This site is for me really.  I write like I'm talking to you, but I am mostly talking to me.  It's a place where I can record things that I have done, want to do, or afraid I will forget.  I love technical challenges. That's what motivates me. The problem is once I figure something out, I'm inclined to forget about it as time passes.  Sometimes I have the same sort of problem months or years later, and don't remember the solution. So this is kind of a storage dump for whatever I am doing.  Hopefully I will find it useful and not a time-suck.  If it works out, I may start to post some stuff from old projects that I have had stashed elsewhere.


I'm using Jekyll for the site and hosting on Github Pages.  Jekyll is a very cool and fairly simple static site generator that converts markdown files to static html files. You can check it out [here](https:jekyllrb.com). The basic workflow is simple once it's set up.  I create markdown files in a text-editor, and Jekyll grabs them and converts to html. Jekyll will serve those files locally so I can check them out, and then I can copy them to whatever web server I am using.  Even easier is that I use Git and Github Pages.  So once I like what I see locally, I just commit to my local Git repository and then push it up to GitHub via ssh.  Since Github Pages uses Jekyll, it will be live almost instantly.  Since I use Bundler to handle my dependencies, I'm sure that what I see local will look the same when I push it to my Github repository.  **Nice**.


**Links to all the stuff I'm talking about:**  

[Jekyll](https:jekyllrb.com)  

[Markdown](https:daringfireball.net)  

[Git](https:git-scm.com)  

[Github](https:github.com)

[Github Pages](https:pages.github.com)  

[Bundler](https:bundler.io)  
